you put two groups together.
3 plus 2 equals 5.
The commutative property tells us
that we can switch the order of the addends.
2 plus 3 equals 5.
[pause] We can make two more addition equations
We can start with the total 5…
and place the addends to the right. [pause]
Now let’s look at the subtraction equations we can write
with these same numbers.
When you subtract, you take one group from another.
5 minus 2 is 3.
Or we could say 3 equals 5 minus 2.
We could also take away 3.
5 minus 3 equals 2.
Or, 2 equals 5 minus 3.
When one operation undoes another we call those operations
inverse
operations. Addition and subtraction are inverse operations.
A break apart drawing models the relationship between numbers.
The drawing can help you write related addition and subtraction
equations.
This drawing models how 2, 3, and 5 are related.
All eight equations can be modeled with this drawing.
They each have the total 5 . . .
the addend 3…
and the addend 2.